>> Kyle Simpson: I wanna start first on
this topic of coercion by digging a little
bit into the nitty-gritty of some stuff
that the spec talks about here, okay?
And I know we're gonna be down
in the weeds for a few minutes.
You gotta just stick with me because
I'm gonna bring us back up to a higher
level of understanding but
I don't want us to use terminology
that you aren't familiar with.
And if you haven't read the spec,
there is some terminology that
definitely might be a little confusing.
So, the spec refers to a certain
set of operations called abstract
operations that represent these
things that we're going to do and
an example that we're going to start
with is the ToString abstract operation.
Now, this one I use the capital T because
it literally is different
than the tostring method.
You know about the ToString method
that you can call and evalue?
This is slightly different.
The ToString abstract operation,
is a set of steps that JavaScript
calls for, anytime we have a value and
we want to convert it to
the type of primitive string.
All over the spec whenever
they wanna do that,
they just dispatch, it's like an internal
built in function of the language.
It is just called ToString.
Capital T ToString.
Now, these abstract operations
aren't actually implemented like
there is a real function that you could
call that way there sort of guidelines
there typically in line whenever
the engine is implementing things.
But they're useful for
us to think about in terms of,
if we can observe something in our code
and we can say, I know under the covers
that's doing this particular abstract
operation, then we have an algorithm to
inspect that tells us exactly what
that abstract operation's gonna do.
So any time we have some value that's not
already a string, and we wanna make it
into a string, these are the sets
of things that are going to happen.
Rather than describe all of
the internals of that operation,
I just want to list some
examples of what it was.
You will notice that pretty much
all of these are pretty intuitive.
If we take the no value and
we call that abstract two string operation
on it we are going to get quote no.
Undefined is quote undefined,
true, false, the number.
So the only that's weird
is that negative 0.
And I already told you
about that one before.
The two strings pre-configured to lie.
When it's given the negative 0, it's
pre-configured to lie and say quote 0.
All the rest of them make complete sense
when call on these primitive value types.
>> Kyle Simpson: When two string is called
upon a non-primitive, that is like one of
the objects, like for example, in array,
it's a little bit more complicated.
Okay.
So, when we call it against the array,
it's going to dispatch against the actual
two-string method of that value.
Either the default one or
one that you have customized.
So the default to string method
when called upon an array is going
to do the following things, and
I find these things a little bit bizarre,
the fact that an empty
array when we stringify it becomes
the empty string, I find troubling.
Because if I have an empty string I don't
know if that came from an empty string or
if it came from an empty array.
To me, the stringification of an empty
array should have the square brackets in
it with no contents in it.
Similar to what it would look like
of you JSON stringified it, right?
The JSON string representation,
that to me is the most natural
string representation for an array.
Here, they leave off the brackets.
You'll notice that on array 1,
2, 3, they just put the 1, 2, 3,
and not the brackets around it.
So I find this to be a bizarre and
puzzling one, but
it also happens to create some other
problems for us down the road.
So this is one of those mistakes that
I wish we could go back and fix.
Cuz we could reduce a whole
lot of the developer confusion
if we would fix some of these early
design decisions make the more sence.
But the biggest one that really
bothers me on this whole slide
is the fact that when no undefined
are individually stringified,
they stringnified to their values null and
undefined.
But when they're in an array and
they stringnified they just, they're
magically empty like this third line here.
You see there's a comma
with two empty values on.
Like that it's just insanity to me.
It's distinct values they represent
themselves when they're on an array they
don't,
>> Kyle Simpson: Some
of that last line, we have a slight
little grammar nuance that arrays
are allowed to have trailing commas.
They don't imply an empty item in the end,
so if you have a trailing comma there,
that's why when we string a fight,
there's only three commas
because there really is only four empty
values here, not five empty values.
One array or I shouldn't say empty,
they're actually undefined.
>> Kyle Simpson: ToString
on objects however,
by default ToString on objects will
just create this bizarre kind of
output where it says
object capital O Object.
The implication here is we have an object
that was created with an Object function.
It's not technically true that it's
always created with that function, but
it's a good representation
that this thing was created.
And I find this strange that no matter
what the contents of the object are,
we get the same stringification.
So if I have an object with a:2 in it,
I get no representation of
that in the string output.
I have to call JSON.string file on it or
something like that.
By the way,
just as a slight little sidenote on
that capital low object toward there.
That is a specific term,
that second word shows up there.
A specific term In ES6 parlance,
it's referred to as a string tag.
In other words,
it is the value that is used to describe
an object when it's stringified.
And by default, objects have a string
tag called capital O Object.
Because we're trying to imply that they
were created by the capital object
function, even if they weren't.
Okay?
But you can actually ask the vio6
overwrite that for your own objects.
You can change the string tag for
an object.
There's a special metahook location
called symbol that to string tag, and
you can change it.
So you can literally make
your object present itself as
lowercase o object foo bar or
whatever else you wanted.
So as an experiment, I said,
what I'd really like my objects to do,
is when stringified,
I'd like them to show me the contents.
So I changed my, for
this one object in this experiment,
I changed the string tag to
be a getter that dispatches
on the fly rather than a set value and
it, JSON stringifies itself.
So it actually print out
lowercase object and
then the JSON representation
of the object.
So you can do fun stuff like
that once you learn about
ES6 meta programming and things like that.
More on that in my ES6 course and
my ES6 and Beyond book.
>> Kyle Simpson: But two string by
default is not very helpful for
us on object types.
>> Kyle Simpson: What about ToNumber?
This is one that's a bit more interesting,
it's a bit more common for us and
certainly references what we've
been talking about with NaNs Many
of these are pretty straightforward.
Quote 0 gives us 0.
Negative 0 actually
does make a negative 0.
So it works correctly in that direction.
You'll notice the one where I have some
white space and some leading zeroes.
It just ignores any white space and
leading zeroes, when it's calling so
that's important because that's
different than we try to call.
Like parseInt on a function for example,
we'll talk about parseInt later.
ParseInt is doing something different than
coercion, parse is trying to parse stuff
and then it guesses if it sees a 0,
thinks it octal or whatever.
Here we're just doing
straight up coercion.
So a leading zero is no big deal at all,
it's not gonna do anything special.
That's why we end up with just the value
9 there from that fourth item.
I find the the trailing decimal place and
the leading decimal place,
they're ignored, I find that interesting.
But it's weird that if you leave off
both the 0 on either side of it,
you end up NaN.
To me that seems strange,
that is an inconsistency to me
that it ought to produce 0 again.
If it's gonna do it for 0 dot, and
dot 0, it ought to do it for dot.
And also you'll notice that if
I do wanna do the base types,
and I do the actual notation for it,
like in this case,
the hexadecimal syntax for the 0xaf.
I'm gonna actually produce
the base ten representation of it.
But the first item in this list,
the very first item at the top that I've
highlighted there, that one I wanna give
some special attention to for a moment.
The fact that JavaScript chose to do an
empty string to coerce it to the 0 value.
And, by the way,
it's not just the empty string,
it's any string that contains
either nothing or all white space.
So a string with a bunch of spaces and
tabs and new lines in it, and
nothing else,
all of that white space gets ignored and
it gets treated the same
as an empty string.
So, what about this empty string becoming
the zero value, does that make any sense?
Well, I don't know if any of you
have ever tried it before, but
this is somewhat unprecedented, because
in virtually in every other language that
I've been able to attempt this in,
if you try to take the empty string and
convert it, coerce it to
a number you always get an error.
C throws an error, Java throws an error,
they all throw an error, because this is
one of those strange corner cases and
they chose in that particular case, and
said look nope that's just an error,
there's nothing we can do.
There's no reason to assume
that empty string means 0.
Empty sting is the absence of some value,
and 0 is definitely not the absence
of a value it is an affirmative
presence of a real important value.
So to conflate empty string
with 0 is troublesome.
This turns out to be a really bad mistake
made early on, and as a matter of fact
you're not gonna know this yet,
but you'll just have to trust me.
I'm gonna lead you through a discussion
of coercion here, we'll actually find out
that empty string becoming 0 is the root
of all coercion evil in all of JavaScript.
Every other coercion bug, or WTF, can all
be traced back this one fateful decision.
If empty string did not become 0,
all the other crazy ones, all the whack
video ones, all of that stuff, they
all trace back to this one root cause.
I didn't believe it at first, but I kept
trying and trying and it turned out,
if you think logically about it,
it turns out every one of them
traces back to this one root cause.
What should empty string have become?
Anybody have any idea on
a better value for it to become?
>> Speaker 2: Not a number.
>> Kyle Simpson: How about NaN?
Doesn't that make more sense?
If it had just become NaN instead of 0,
virtually all other coercion
woes would've gone away.
But they chose to make it become 0,
more on that in a little bit.
Booleans, nulls and
undefined, false becomes 0,
true becomes 1, now I understand there's
lot's of historical precedent for that.
LIke in the C language,
we didn't have Booleans so we used 0 and
one interchangeably as true and false.
But now in a modern programming language
that does have the Boolean type,
the fact that false becomes 0
is a little bit sketchy to me.
The fact that I could say false plus true,
and
end up with the number 1 is strange to me.
And I don't think it actually leads us to
more reasonability in our code that we can
just implicitly treat Booleans and numbers
as interchangeable with each other.
They have very distinct purposes, and I
don't think we should treat them as that.
So I would almost highlight false and
true there, and say those becoming 0 and
1, respectively, is a strange decision,
but I understand the historical precedent.
So at least it's not out of left field,
right?
But null,
becoming 0 where undefined becomes NaN?
Now that is just straight up insane,
right?
That's just crazy.
Why does null become 0, but undefined
becomes NaN, just to mess with us?
There's just no reason for
this, this is a bad decision,
one of those things I'd go back and fix.
>> Kyle Simpson: So what about when we
call ToNumber on an object, an object or
an array?
Well it turns out that ToNumber when
called against a non primitive,
it first dispatches to another
abstract operation called ToPrimitive.
Because ToNumber can only
operate on primitives.
So we first have to take something
that's not already a primitive, and
make it into a primitive.
And there's a two step process for
turning something that's not
a primitive into into a primitive.
First, that ToPrimitive operation
will dispatch to a valueOf and
then it will dispatch to a toString.
Now that's actually reversed when
the end result is that you want
a number versus the end
result you want a string.
If you were to coerce
an object to a string
it first goes to that ToPrimitive, and
it calls toString first and then valueOf.
But here we're trying to produce
a number so it calls valueOf first, and
if valueOf does not return us a primitive
then it dispatches to toString.
Now this is notable because you can
actually create an object that has both
a valueOf and
a toString method to find on it.
And you can make those methods return
different answers, so you can really
screw with people by creating an object
that will coerce itself differently,
depending upon whether you ask for
a string or a number out of it.
But not a good idea, but
you can do that, okay?
So primarily we think of the valueOf
method as being the one that
answers the question, what is the
primitive representation of those objects.
So imagine you've created
a data structure, and
you want that data structure, maybe
that data structure is a point, right?
Like a cartesian x, y,
z point in 3D space.
And you want that point when treated as a
number to represent itself as some number.
For example,
you could have it be the Cartesian
distance from that point
in 3D space to the origin.
So you could have it calculate internally,
what is my distance,
my Cartesian distance to the origin.
And that's how you could
represent that object as a number,
have the valueOf function return that
value, that number representation.
Whereas when asked for
string representation,
you'd probably wanna print it as
parenthesis and then the three x, y,
z coordinates and
then another parenthesis, right?
So it does actually sometimes
make sense to represent it
very differently between the string and
the number representation.
>> Kyle Simpson: So here's some
interesting things, when we have the array
that it's not an empty array,
it's an array with an empty string,
the first thing that happens is that
the array needs to call its toString.
So array toString produces the empty
string, and then empty string produces 0.
This is a two step process now.
First we create the primitive,
and then we do that.
Two number on the primitive result.
There is our root of evil
coming back to bite us.
If that empty string had produced a NaN
then we would have resulted in a NaN.
>> Kyle Simpson: I find it very
strange that both array of null and
array of undefined produce 0s,
whereas null and undefined by
themselves produced different results.
Here, because they're in an array and that
array stringification is all busted up,
they both produce the empty string,
which then both produce 0s.
Root of all evil thing again.
Okay, so
all these other weirdnesses are all
coming from that one faithful decision.
Same thing down there on that last one.
[COUGH] Why do you suppose the array 1,
2, 3, becomes NaN?
>> Speaker 2: Two string first.
>> Kyle Simpson: It calls a two
string which produces 1, 2, 3, and
that string then coerced to a number,
it sees the common, it's like,
that's not a valid number.
So it gives us NaN.
All right, ToBoolean, does exactly what
it sounds like, any time we ask for
a value that's not a Boolean to be
treated as if it was a Boolean.
We're dispatching to this internal
abstract operation called ToBoolean.
Now I understand what ToBoolean does,
we actually need to understand two
concepts called falsy and truthy.
And this sounds like a little bit made up.
And it is sort of, these are terms of art.
The words falsy and
truthy don't actually appear on the spec,
we don't really refer to
things as falsy and truthy.
It sounds like something
a politician would make up.
Well, it's sort of truthy-ish,
kind of, right?
What is truthy and falsy?
Here's what we mean by
that as the term right?.
Falsy means if you have a value and
you dispatch the tToBoolean operation
on it, it will always produce false.
So it is a falsy value if when coursed
ToBoolean it produces false, okay?
Examples of the falsy values,
the empty string,
any representation of the 0,
null, NaN, false, and undefined.
As a matter of fact,
those are the only falsy values.
There's a very specific list,
it's literally this table in the spec that
says these values when we call ToBoolean
these ones produce the Boolean false.
And it literally says
everything else produces true.
So there is no list of
truthy values in the spec,
something is a truthy value if
it's not on the falsy value list.
Examples of truthy values include "foo",
the number 23, the object the array,
the true the function, and
there's a .., there because there's
an infinite number of items on that list.
So how do you know if something's truthy?
If it's not on the falsy list.
All you gonna dodo is
memorize that falsy list.
The string, the empty string, any 0, null,
undefined, false and NaN,
those are the falsy volumes.
Now, something very important.
If you're taking notes don't miss
this really like highlight this and
make sure you don't miss it.
These rules only apply if legitimately,
the ToBoolean operation
is actually invoked.
>> Kyle Simpson: And that might sound
like a no-op statement of mine.
Well obviously, right?
There are several places, which we're
gonna look at in just a little bit.
There are several places that
appear syntactically as if they
are producing a Boolean coercion, and
they're not actually producing a Boolean,
and therefore these rules don't apply.
So the rules only apply
if the rules apply.
I sound like a politician, don't I?
The rules only apply if it's
actually being invoked.
So it's important for you to know
whether or not it's being invoked.
Following me?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
you have to learn the falsy list